In this video, we'll cover the updates
for the Gradebook UI.
Now just as a checkpoint, at the moment
we've developed tests for creating a student
and also getting a list of students.
So all of our backend code has been tested
and we have a good level of confidence that that part works.
So we're good on the backend.
However, we still have some work to do
because the current UI has hard coded HTML.
It doesn't really do anything.
So if you remember earlier in the course
when we ran our application,
we had a user interface come up, but it didn't really work.
It was all kind of hard coded.
So we have some work to do.
And the first thing we have to do is update the index
at HTML to have the form submit data
to the Gradebook controller on the backend.
And then we also need to update the index HTML
to display a list of students using a for loop,
and basically looping over the students model attribute.
At the moment we have three students on our UI,
but they're hard coded.
Instead, we'll make use of the for loop
to loop over those students from that model attribute
and display each person.
All right.
So that's our game plan.
Let's go ahead. Moving to our IDE and dial.
Let's get started.
Okay.
One thing that we need
to do is that we need to make a minor code update.
This is to try and keep the videos in sync
with the code that we have.
So there are some small issues with the recording.
And so let's just go ahead and make this minor code update.
So open up the file GradebookControllerTest.java
and we need to rename one of the fields.
And we need to rename the studentANDGradeServiceMock.
We need to rename it to studentCreateServiceMock.
All right.
So go ahead and make this update in the file
and save it accordingly.
And then this'll keep your code and sync
with everything that you'll see in the following videos.
So just a minor code update.
All righty.
Thanks.
All right.
So we're in our IDE, let's go ahead and take a look
at that Gradebook controller.
And what we'd like to do is, here there's code
for getting a list of students.
We'd also like to do a similar thing
When we create the student.
Once we create a student, we'd also like to get a list
of students and set that as a model attribute.
What I'll do is I'll swing back over to my test
and I'll add a small bit of test code in here
just to make sure that we can assert equals
on list or intervals.
So let me go ahead and create a college student
just for a second.
I'll create this college student("Eric", "Roby"),
and I'll simply add this college student to a list.
Okay. So that code looks pretty good.
Now I'll set up a mock for the student service.
Here I'll say, studentCreateServiceMock.getGradebook,
and then I'll say thenReturn(collegeStudentList).
And then I'll simply do a really quick test here
on assert interval equals.
The college student list comma.
Then I'll make use of that mock
and then I'll say, get grade book.
Let me just run this test real quick.
Okay, excellent.
So this test runs just fine.
Now let's go ahead
and do a similar thing here and our controller.
So we're in grade book controller right now.
And what we're going to do is we're going to add code such
that after we create this student, then we'll get a list
of students and add them as a model attribute.
Here I'll set as college students equals student serviced.
get grade book.
And now I'll simply add this
as a model attribute the name students
and then the reference here to college students.
So effectively, once we add a new student
then we simply get a list of all the student
from the database, basically getting the latest list
adding that as a model attribute.
And what I'd like to do is just run all of my tests again
just to make sure everything still passes.
Okay, great.
Everything still passes.
So we're in good shape right now.
Great. So all of the back end code is in place.
Let's move to the next video
and we'll start working on the UE code.